A MIDSUMMER NIGHT'S DREAM
by William Shakespeare

ACT II, SCENE I
A wood near Athens.

[Enter a FAIRY at one door, and PUCK at another]

PUCK. How now, spirit! Whither wander you?

FAIRY. Over hill, over dale, thorough bush, thorough brier,
over park, over pale, thorough flood, thorough fire --
I do wander everywhere, swifter than the moon's sphere;
and I serve the Fairy Queen, to dew her orbs upon the green.

FAIRY. The cowslips tall her pensioners be; in their gold coats
spots you see. Those be rubies, fairy favours, in those freckles
live their savours. I must go seek some dewdrops here, and hang
a pearl in every cowslip's ear.

PUCK. The King doth keep his revels here tonight. Take heed the
Queen come not within his sight, for Oberon is passing fell and
wrath, because that she, as her attendant, hath a lovely boy
stolen from an Indian king.

PUCK. She never had so sweet a changeling. And jealous Oberon
would have the child knight of his train, to trace the forests
wild. But she perforce withholds the loved boy, crowns him with
flowers, and makes him all her joy.

[Enter OBERON at one door, with his train; and TITANIA at another with hers]

OBERON. Ill met by moonlight, proud Titania.

TITANIA. What, jealous Oberon? Fairies, skip hence. I have
forsworn his bed and company.

OBERON. Tarry, rash wanton! Am not I thy lord?

TITANIA. Then I must be thy lady; but I know when thou hast
stolen away from Fairyland, and in the shape of Corin sat all
day, playing on pipes of corn, and versing love to amorous
Phillida.

OBERON. How canst thou thus, for shame, Titania, glance at my
credit with Hippolyta, knowing I know thy love to Theseus?

TITANIA. These are the forgeries of jealousy; and never, since
the middle summer's spring, met we on hill, in dale, forest, or
mead, by paved fountain or by rushy brook, or in the beached
margent of the sea, to dance our ringlets to the whistling wind,
but with thy brawls thou hast disturbed our sport.

OBERON. Do you amend it, then; it lies in you. Why should Titania
cross her Oberon? I do but beg a little changeling boy to be my
henchman.

TITANIA. Set your heart at rest. The Fairyland buys not the child
of me. His mother was a votaress of my order, and in the spiced
Indian air by night full often hath she gossiped by my side.

OBERON. Well, go thy way. Thou shalt not from this grove till I
torment thee for this injury. My gentle Puck, come hither.

[Exeunt TITANIA and her train]
